---
title: Welcome to Hacker School
layout: post
---

####In the beginning...
I admit I was dubious about Hacker School for a long time. The concept was
certainly interesting but it wasn't obvious to me if the program would be as
useful for devs who had been in industry for a long time (and I had the better
part of a decade under my belt at that point). Could I really justify flying
half-way around the world <a
href="http://www.antipodr.com/?addr=New+York+City%2C+New+York"><small>(almost
literally)</small></a> for a three month experiment? Given some free
time, couldn't I just hack on my own projects from the comforts of home and get
most of the same benefits? 

I decided to defer answering these questions and just apply, hoping I could
figure it out during the application process.

Two interviews later I was cautiously optimistic but still not totally sold.
What finally pushed me over the edge was (in hindsight a little silly) but it
was the overwhelmingly positive comments in the HN storied about Hacker School.
HN has a large cynical contingency these days and yet I don't think I found
anything but effusive praise in any of the Hacker School related threads. In the
stories, Hacker Schooler alums raved about how they learned more in three months
at Hacker School than in years at their previous jobs.  It was remarkable, I was
finally convinced, and two and a half weeks later I was off to New York City.


####An experiment emerges
Walking into Hacker School that first day everyone is buzzing with excitement
but nobody seems to have any idea what the next three months are going to bring.
We're pretty sure it will involve programming, but beyond that... nothing.

The founders, Nick and Dave, open that first day with a talk and they freely
admit to the experimental nature of what they're trying to do here.

The theory behind the school, we're told, is that people learn best when they
are free to pursue their interests, with minimal structure and with no fear of
failure. They place a lot of emphasis on cultivating an environment which
maximizes experimentation and minimizes fear, whether it's the fear of looking
stupid in front of your peers or fear of tackling an unfamiliar domain of
computer science or technology.

The ultimate goal, however, is quite explicitly greatness. Obviously not
something that's achievable in our limited time but really, they want to hammer
home the point that you should strive to be great, don't just try to build
something fantastic so that you can impress potential employers. The great job
and great career should just be a nice perk of your mission for greatness.  In
fact, we're told the longer we hold off thinking about jobs the more we'll get
out of our time here. The message is simple: work on whatever excites you.

What I found remarkable about this advice is that it is clearly in conflict with
how Hacker School gets paid (by placing students at companies). 

It was at this point that I really believed them when they say that they don't
run Hacker School to recruit but rather they recruit to be able to run Hacker
School. 

####Beyond great
Beyond a general long-term goal to be great, we are told that the more immediate
goal for the next twelve weeks is to work on things which push us as far beyond
our comfort zones as we dare go.

This is a deeply cool thing and is worth reiterating. 

Hacker School offers you space, focussed time and issues you a specific
challenge: to build that crazy project you've had in the back of your mind, your
"desert island project". You how every hacker at some point says "some day I'm
going to take my laptop and disconnect from the rest of the world and just build
my own $x". Well this is that time. But they've made the desert island better.
Because now you're surrounded by smart people wanting to build ambitious things
and odds are good that someone in the room has thought about the problem you're
trying to tackle. And if they're not in the room, someone within the alumni
network.

The room is electric by the end of the talks.

Welcome to Hacker School.
